documentation.md, before:

# Personal Portfolio Documentation

---

## Group Mmembers

- Shekinah Mpinguyabo Ntumba  
- Mohammed Firdaws Alnuur 
- 
- 
- 

---


## 2. What did you learn during the Githib lessons:

We learned how:

**Shekinah Mpinguyabo Ntumba**  

- To create and manage branches for different features, which allowed me to work on individual tasks without disrupting the main codebase. I also practiced writing structured and meaningful commit messages, helping me keep track of changes and maintain a clear development history. In addition, I gained valuable experience in opening and managing pull requests to propose changes and collaborate effectively. One of the most important skills I developed was resolving merge conflicts—a crucial part of teamwork that ensures contributions from different sources are integrated smoothly into the project.

**Firdaws Mohammed**

- To solve a merge conflict and having to approve a PR. I learnt how to rebase a commit and merge it to the main branch.
- 
- 
 **Mercy Kiminza**
 **What I learnt:**
 1. What is Git?
Git is a distributed version control system that helps track changes in source code during software development.It allows multiple developers to collaborate, maintain history, and roll back if needed.

2. **Basic Git Workflow**
git init – Initialize a new Git repository.
git add <file> – Stage changes for commit.
git commit -m "message" – Save a snapshot of the staged changes.
git status – Show the state of the working directory and staging area.

3. **Working with Remote Repositories (e.g., GitHub)**
git clone <url> – Download a project and its history.
git remote add origin <url> – Link your local repo to a remote one.
git push origin <branch> – Upload commits to the remote repo.
git pull origin <branch> – Fetch and merge changes from the remote repo. 

4. **Branching and Merging**
git branch – List branches or create a new one.
git checkout <branch> – Switch branches.
git merge <branch> – Merge another branch into your current one.
Useful for developing features without affecting the main codebase.

5. **Best Practices**
Write clear commit messages.
Commit small, logical changes.
Pull regularly to avoid conflicts.
Use branches for features and bug fixes.

**Addios Muchachos!**

Commit message:

docs : combination of two commits
issue #18

documentation.md, after:

# Personal Portfolio Documentation

---

## Group Mmembers

- Shekinah Mpinguyabo Ntumba  
- Mohammed Firdaws Alnuur 
- 
- 
- 

---


## 2. What did you learn during the Githib lessons:

We learned how:

**Shekinah Mpinguyabo Ntumba**  

- To create and manage branches for different features, which allowed me to work on individual tasks without disrupting the main codebase. I also practiced writing structured and meaningful commit messages, helping me keep track of changes and maintain a clear development history. In addition, I gained valuable experience in opening and managing pull requests to propose changes and collaborate effectively. One of the most important skills I developed was resolving merge conflicts—a crucial part of teamwork that ensures contributions from different sources are integrated smoothly into the project.

**Firdaws Mohammed**

- I learned how to identify and resolve merge conflicts, ensuring clean integration of code when collaborating across branches. This strengthened my understanding of how Git maintains history and handles concurrent edits.
- I became proficient in approving and reviewing pull requests, learning how to assess code contributions, provide feedback, and maintain code quality across our project.
- I practiced rebasing commits to rewrite history in a linear, organized way, which helped simplify merges and keep our commit tree clean.
- I explored how to merge feature branches into the main branch, understanding when to rebase versus merge depending on the workflow needs.
- These lessons deepened my appreciation for GitHub’s collaborative features and taught me how disciplined workflows can reduce friction in team-based software development.

 **Mercy Kiminza**
 **What I learnt:**
 1. What is Git?
Git is a distributed version control system that helps track changes in source code during software development.It allows multiple developers to collaborate, maintain history, and roll back if needed.

2. **Basic Git Workflow**
git init – Initialize a new Git repository.
git add <file> – Stage changes for commit.
git commit -m "message" – Save a snapshot of the staged changes.
git status – Show the state of the working directory and staging area.

3. **Working with Remote Repositories (e.g., GitHub)**
git clone <url> – Download a project and its history.
git remote add origin <url> – Link your local repo to a remote one.
git push origin <branch> – Upload commits to the remote repo.
git pull origin <branch> – Fetch and merge changes from the remote repo. 

4. **Branching and Merging**
git branch – List branches or create a new one.
git checkout <branch> – Switch branches.
git merge <branch> – Merge another branch into your current one.
Useful for developing features without affecting the main codebase.

5. **Best Practices**
Write clear commit messages.
Commit small, logical changes.
Pull regularly to avoid conflicts.
Use branches for features and bug fixes.

**Addios Muchachos!**
